# Search Flights Application 

## Getting Started

### This is a Flight Search App which handles the following basic operations:
- Search itineraries
- Handle non-stop and round flights
- Show Amenities
- Display price breakdown

## Technical Stack
1. ### Frontend Application: 
- #### Located in /frontend created using Next JS, TypeScript, React Context, ShadCN/UI and Vitest for testing.
- #### The application developer server runs on port 3000.
2. ### Backend Application:
- #### Located in /backendbtII created using Gradle Groovy 3.4.4, Java 17, Jar, Spring Web & SpringBoot using Spring Initializr


## Architechture
### For details about the architechture of each application look into the README files inside each folder. These files include information about components, functionality and testing.

---

## Deployment
### This applicaition is made to run on Docker containers, using dockerfiles inside frontend and backend applications, and a docker-compose.yml to run the images generated by the files in a container. You need to set your own environment variables inside application.properties to run the app.
### How to deploy:
1. #### First step is installing and setting up docker on your workstation. Here is the link to the docker docs, which include guides on how to install their desktop application. https://docs.docker.com/desktop/ Docker desktop is an easy way to handle your containers without having to depend exclusively on the CLI.
2. #### After installing docker you should clone this repository into a directory into your own computer.
3. #### Once you have docker and the project in your computer, you can then run these commands inside the main folder of the application {docker build -t <your image name> ./frontend}, {docker build -t <your image name> ./backendbtII} . These commands create docker images of each of the projects using the instructions specified inside the dockerfiles.
4. #### After the images have been created run inside the app's main folder{docker-compose up --build} to create your docker container.

# 🚨 Quick note when deploying
### If you don't set your environment variables correctly, the deployment might fail.
### There are different configurations in the backend dockerfile, use the one more fitted to your needs, my recommendation is to use the third one, which is commented out, since it runs a clean build before runing the app.
